Add asynchronous concurrent execution (#3687)
ROCm-Developer-Tools/HIP: docs/how-to/hip_runtime_api/asynchronous.rst

.. meta::
  :description: This topic describes asynchronous concurrent execution in HIP
  :keywords: AMD, ROCm, HIP, asynchronous concurrent execution, asynchronous, async, concurrent, concurrency

.. _asynchronous_how-to:

*******************************************************************************
Asynchronous concurrent execution
*******************************************************************************

> Asynchronous concurrent execution important for efficient parallelism and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Asynchronous concurrent execution is important for efficient parallelism and
```

resource utilization, with techniques such as overlapping computation and data
transfer, managing concurrent kernel execution with streams on single or

> multiple devices or using HIP graphs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
multiple devices, or using HIP graphs.
```

Streams and concurrent execution
===============================================================================

All asynchronous APIs, such as kernel execution, data movement and potentially
data allocation/freeing all happen in the context of device streams.

Streams are FIFO buffers of commands to execute in order on a given device.

> Commands which enqueue tasks on a stream all return promptly and the command is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Commands which enqueue tasks on a stream all return promptly and the task is
```

> executed asynchronously. Multiple streams may point to the same device and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
executed asynchronously. Multiple streams can point to the same device and
```

> those streams may be fed from multiple concurrent host-side threads. Execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
those streams might be fed from multiple concurrent host-side threads. Execution
```

> on multiple streams may be concurrent but isn't required to be.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on multiple streams might be concurrent but isn't required to be.
```

Managing streams
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Streams enable the overlap of computation and data transfer, ensuring
continuous GPU activity. 

> To create a stream, the following functions are used, each returning a handle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a stream, the following functions are used, each defining a handle
```

to the newly created stream:

- :cpp:func:`hipStreamCreate`: Creates a stream with default settings.

> - :cpp:func:`hipStreamCreateWithFlags`: Allows creating a stream, with specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :cpp:func:`hipStreamCreateWithFlags`: Creates a stream, with specific
```

  flags, listed below, enabling more control over stream behavior:

  - ``hipStreamDefault``: creates a default stream suitable for most

>     operations. It ensures that the stream is not non-blocking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    operations. The default stream is a blocking operation.
```

Reviewer: It seems like in this case, the only reason to use hipStreamCreateWithFlags is to create non-blocking streams?

Author: Yes, exactly. 
The text is updated.

  - ``hipStreamNonBlocking``: creates a non-blocking stream, allowing
    concurrent execution of operations. It ensures that tasks can run
    simultaneously without waiting for each other to complete, thus improving
    overall performance.

> - :cpp:func:`hipStreamCreateWithPriority``: Allows creating a stream with a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :cpp:func:`hipStreamCreateWithPriority`: Allows creating a stream with a
```

  default stream), it waits for all operations in the default stream to
  complete.

Concurrent execution between host and device
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Concurrent execution between the host (CPU) and device (GPU) allows the CPU to
perform other tasks while the GPU is executing kernels. Kernels can be launched
asynchronously using ``hipLaunchKernelDefault`` with a stream, enabling the CPU
to continue executing other code while the GPU processes the kernel. Similarly,
memory operations like :cpp:func:`hipMemcpyAsync` can be performed
asynchronously, allowing data transfers between the host and device without
blocking the CPU.

Concurrent kernel execution
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Concurrent execution of multiple kernels on the GPU allows different kernels to
run simultaneously to maximize GPU resource usage. Managing dependencies
between kernels is crucial for ensuring correct execution order. This can be
achieved using :cpp:func:`hipStreamWaitEvent`, which allows a kernel to wait
for a specific event before starting execution.

> Independent kernels can only run concurrently, if there are enough registers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Independent kernels can only run concurrently if there are enough registers
```
This isn't clear to me. Does it mean that independent kernels can only run concurrently? Or they can only run concurrently if there are enough resources?

Author: They can only run concurrently if there are enough resources.
(Independent kernel can run sequentially too)

Comma is removed

> and share memories for the kernels. To reach concurrent kernel executions, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and shared memory for the kernels. To enable concurrent kernel executions, the
```

developer may have to reduce the block size of the kernels. The kernel runtimes

> can be misleading at concurrent kernel runs, that's why during optimization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can be misleading for concurrent kernel runs, that is why during optimization
```

> it's better to check the trace files, to see if a kernel is blocking another

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it is a good practice to check the trace files, to see if one kernel is blocking another
```

> kernel, while they are running parallel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kernel, while they are running in parallel.
```

When running kernels in parallel, the execution time can increase due to
contention for shared resources. This is because multiple kernels may attempt
to access the same GPU resources simultaneously, leading to delays.

> Asynchronous kernel execution is beneficial only under specific conditions It

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Asynchronous kernel execution is beneficial only under specific conditions. It
```

such cases, overlapping kernel execution can improve overall throughput and
efficiency by keeping the GPU busy without exceeding its capacity.

Overlap of data transfer and kernel execution
===============================================================================

One of the primary benefits of asynchronous operations is the ability to
overlap data transfer with kernel execution, leading to better resource
utilization and improved performance.

Asynchronous execution is particularly advantageous in iterative processes. For
instance, if an iteration calculation is initiated, it can be efficient to
prepare the input data simultaneously, provided that this preparation does not
depend on the kernel's execution.

Querying device capabilities
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some AMD HIP-enabled devices can perform asynchronous memory copy operations to
or from the GPU concurrently with kernel execution. Applications can query this
capability by checking the ``asyncEngineCount`` device property. Devices with
an ``asyncEngineCount`` greater than zero support concurrent data transfers.

> Additionally, if host memory is involved in the copy, it should be page-locked

Reviewer: Is there a reference we can provide such as Memory Management or something?

Author: I didn't find. The only thing that I found is:
https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/HIP/en/latest/doxygen/html/structhip_device_prop__t.html#a24ee882099e1b02e95f6c245ff1ea0cf

Reviewer: I think my comment was related to the "if host memory is involved in the copy, it should be page-locked to ensure optimal performance" text. This seems like it could use a reference to some additional details, or maybe just indicate how page-locked ensures optimal performance?

Author: Sorry, I misunderstood you.

Yes, you are right, I tried to extend the content and I added a link to host memory.

sets that need to be processed quickly.

Concurrent data transfers
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Concurrent data transfers are supported between the host and device, within
device memory, and among multiple devices. Using :cpp:func:`hipMemcpyAsync`,
data can be transferred asynchronously, allowing for efficient data movement
without blocking other operations. :cpp:func:`hipMemcpyPeerAsync` enables data
transfers between different GPUs, facilitating multi-GPU communication.
Concurrent data transfers are important for applications that require frequent
and large data movements. By overlapping data transfers with computation,
developers can minimize idle times and enhance performance. This is
particularly important for applications that need to handle large volumes of
data efficiently.

Concurrent data transfers with intra-device copies
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It is also possible to perform intra-device copies simultaneously with kernel
execution on devices that support the ``concurrentKernels`` device property

> and/or with copies to or from the device (for devices that support the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and/or with copies to or from the device (for devices that support the
```
Are copies to or from the device intra-device copies?

Author: No, intra-device copying is data transfer within the same device.

Thank you for drawing my attention to it. The text was misleading, so I rephrased it.

``asyncEngineCount`` property). Intra-device copies can be initiated using
standard memory copy functions with destination and source addresses residing
on the same device.

Synchronization, event management and synchronous calls
===============================================================================

Synchronization and event management are important for coordinating tasks and
ensuring correct execution order, and synchronous calls are necessary for
maintaining data consistency.

Synchronous calls
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Synchronous calls ensure task completion before moving to the next operation.
For example, :cpp:func:`hipMemcpy` for data transfers waits for completion
before returning control to the host. Similarly, synchronous kernel launches
are used when immediate completion is required. When a synchronous function is
called, control is not returned to the host thread before the device has
completed the requested task. The behavior of the host thread—whether to yield,
block, or spin—can be specified using :cpp:func:`hipSetDeviceFlags` with

> specific flags. Understanding when to use synchronous calls is important for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
appropriate flags. Understanding when to use synchronous calls is important for
```

managing execution flow and avoiding data races.

Events for synchronization
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

By creating an event with :cpp:func:`hipEventCreate` and recording it with
:cpp:func:`hipEventRecord`, developers can synchronize operations across
streams, ensuring correct task execution order. :cpp:func:`hipEventSynchronize`

> allows waiting for an event to complete before proceeding with the next

Reviewer: ```suggestion
lets the application wait for an event to complete before proceeding with the next
```

            HIP_CHECK(hipStreamWaitEvent(streamB, eventB, 0));

            // Cleanup
            HIP_CHECK(hipEventDestroy(event));
            HIP_CHECK(hipEventDestroy(eventA));
            HIP_CHECK(hipEventDestroy(eventB));
            HIP_CHECK(hipStreamDestroy(streamA));
            HIP_CHECK(hipStreamDestroy(streamB));
            HIP_CHECK(hipFree(d_dataA));
            HIP_CHECK(hipFree(d_dataB));

            std::cout << "Asynchronous execution with events completed successfully." << std::endl;

            return 0;
        }

HIP Graphs
===============================================================================

HIP graphs offer an efficient alternative to the standard method of launching
GPU tasks via streams. Comprising nodes for operations and edges for
dependencies, HIP graphs reduce kernel launch overhead and provide a high-level
abstraction for managing dependencies and synchronization. By representing
sequences of kernels and memory operations as a single graph, they simplify
complex workflows and enhance performance, particularly for applications with
intricate dependencies and multiple execution stages.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  - ``hipStreamNonBlocking``: creates a non-blocking stream, allowing
    concurrent execution of operations. It ensures that tasks can run
    simultaneously without waiting for each other to complete, thus improving
    overall performance.

- :cpp:func:`hipStreamCreateWithPriority`: Allows creating a stream with a
  specified priority, enabling prioritization of certain tasks.

The :cpp:func:`hipStreamSynchronize` function is used to block the calling host
thread until all previously submitted tasks in a specified HIP stream have
completed. It ensures that all operations in the given stream, such as kernel
executions or memory transfers, are finished before the host thread proceeds.

.. note::

  If the :cpp:func:`hipStreamSynchronize` function input stream is 0 (or the
  default stream), it waits for all operations in the default stream to
  complete.

Concurrent execution between host and device
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Concurrent execution between the host (CPU) and device (GPU) allows the CPU to
perform other tasks while the GPU is executing kernels. Kernels can be launched

> asynchronously using ``hipLaunchKernelDefault`` with a stream, enabling the CPU

Reviewer 2: What is hipLaunchKernelDefault? Where is it defined?

Reviewer 3: Fixed this sentence.

to continue executing other code while the GPU processes the kernel. Similarly,
memory operations like :cpp:func:`hipMemcpyAsync` can be performed
asynchronously, allowing data transfers between the host and device without
blocking the CPU.

Concurrent kernel execution
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Concurrent execution of multiple kernels on the GPU allows different kernels to
run simultaneously to maximize GPU resource usage. Managing dependencies
between kernels is crucial for ensuring correct execution order. This can be
achieved using :cpp:func:`hipStreamWaitEvent`, which allows a kernel to wait
for a specific event before starting execution.

Independent kernels can only run concurrently if there are enough registers
and shared memory for the kernels. To enable concurrent kernel executions, the
developer may have to reduce the block size of the kernels. The kernel runtimes
can be misleading for concurrent kernel runs, that is why during optimization

> it is a good practice to check the trace files, to see if one kernel is blocking another

Reviewer 2: Can we clarify what we mean by tracing here.
User might confuse it with ltrace etc. Also can we point user to the document which helps them trace so that they do not have to search for it.

Reviewer 3: I am linking in the rocprof documnetation.

kernel, while they are running in parallel.

When running kernels in parallel, the execution time can increase due to
contention for shared resources. This is because multiple kernels may attempt
to access the same GPU resources simultaneously, leading to delays.

Asynchronous kernel execution is beneficial only under specific conditions. It
is most effective when the kernels do not fully utilize the GPU's resources. In
such cases, overlapping kernel execution can improve overall throughput and
efficiency by keeping the GPU busy without exceeding its capacity.

Overlap of data transfer and kernel execution
===============================================================================

One of the primary benefits of asynchronous operations is the ability to
overlap data transfer with kernel execution, leading to better resource
utilization and improved performance.

Asynchronous execution is particularly advantageous in iterative processes. For

> instance, if an iteration calculation is initiated, it can be efficient to

Reviewer 2: Not sure what you mean by 
>iteration calculation is initiated

Can we provide an example here.

Reviewer 3: Added example link, plus rephrased.

possible to manage the execution order without explicit hardware support. This
mechanism allows a secondary kernel to launch as soon as the necessary
conditions are met, even if the primary kernel is still running.

Example
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The examples shows the difference between sequential, asynchronous calls and
asynchronous calls with ``hipEvents``.

.. figure:: ../../data/how-to/hip_runtime_api/asynchronous/sequential_async_event.svg
  :alt: Compare the different calls
  :align: center

The example codes

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Sequential

      .. code-block:: cpp

        #include <hip/hip_runtime.h>
        #include <vector>
        #include <iostream>

        #define HIP_CHECK(expression)                \
        {                                            \
            const hipError_t status = expression;    \
            if(status != hipSuccess){                \
                    std::cerr << "HIP error "        \
                        << status << ": "            \
                        << hipGetErrorString(status) \
                        << " at " << __FILE__ << ":" \

>                         << __LINE__ << std::endl;    \

Reviewer 2: maybe add an `exit` or `std::abort` here if check fails.

Reviewer 3: I would avoid the ``exit`` usage. We mentioned this at the error handling page:
https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/HIP/en/docs-develop/how-to/hip_runtime_api/error_handling.html#hip-check-macros

            }                                        \
        }

        // GPU Kernels
        __global__ void kernelA(double* arrayA, size_t size){
            const size_t x = threadIdx.x + blockDim.x * blockIdx.x;
            if(x < size){arrayA[x] *= 2.0;}
        };
        __global__ void kernelB(double* arrayB, size_t size){
            const size_t x = threadIdx.x + blockDim.x * blockIdx.x;
            if(x < size){arrayB[x] += 3.0;}
        };

        int main()
        {
            constexpr int numOfBlocks = 256;
            constexpr int threadsPerBlock = 4096;
            constexpr int numberOfIterations = 50;

>             size_t arraySize = 1U << 20;

Reviewer 2: might as well make this constexpr too

Reviewer 3: Made the requested changes.

            // Allocate device memory
            HIP_CHECK(hipMalloc(&d_dataA, arraySize * sizeof(*d_dataA)));
            HIP_CHECK(hipMalloc(&d_dataB, arraySize * sizeof(*d_dataB)));

            for(unsigned int iteration = 0; iteration < numberOfIterations; iteration++)
            {
                // Host to Device copies
                HIP_CHECK(hipMemcpy(d_dataA, vectorA.data(), arraySize * sizeof(*d_dataA), hipMemcpyHostToDevice));
                HIP_CHECK(hipMemcpy(d_dataB, vectorB.data(), arraySize * sizeof(*d_dataB), hipMemcpyHostToDevice));

                // Launch the GPU kernels
                hipLaunchKernelGGL(kernelA, dim3(numOfBlocks), dim3(threadsPerBlock), 0, 0, d_dataA, arraySize);
                hipLaunchKernelGGL(kernelB, dim3(numOfBlocks), dim3(threadsPerBlock), 0, 0, d_dataB, arraySize);

                // Device to Host copies
                HIP_CHECK(hipMemcpy(vectorA.data(), d_dataA, arraySize * sizeof(*vectorA.data()), hipMemcpyDeviceToHost));
                HIP_CHECK(hipMemcpy(vectorB.data(), d_dataB, arraySize * sizeof(*vectorB.data()), hipMemcpyDeviceToHost));
            }

            // Wait for all operations to complete

>             HIP_CHECK(hipDeviceSynchronize());

Reviewer 2: Can we do some sort of validation here. All we did was see if kernels got executed and user did not get any error.

This should help user get confidence that the output is same regardless of sync or async.

Reviewer 3: Made the requested changes.

            // Cleanup
            HIP_CHECK(hipFree(d_dataA));
            HIP_CHECK(hipFree(d_dataB));

            std::cout << "Sequential execution completed successfully." << std::endl;

            return 0;
        }

    .. tab-item:: Asynchronous

      .. code-block:: cpp

        #include <hip/hip_runtime.h>
        #include <vector>
        #include <iostream>

        #define HIP_CHECK(expression)                \
        {                                            \
            const hipError_t status = expression;    \
            if(status != hipSuccess){                \
                    std::cerr << "HIP error "        \
                        << status << ": "            \
                        << hipGetErrorString(status) \
                        << " at " << __FILE__ << ":" \

>                         << __LINE__ << std::endl;    \

Reviewer 2: Same comments as sync variant

Reviewer 3: Made the requested changes.

            }

            // Wait for all operations in both streams to complete
            HIP_CHECK(hipStreamSynchronize(streamA));
            HIP_CHECK(hipStreamSynchronize(streamB));

            // Cleanup
            HIP_CHECK(hipStreamDestroy(streamA));
            HIP_CHECK(hipStreamDestroy(streamB));
            HIP_CHECK(hipFree(d_dataA));
            HIP_CHECK(hipFree(d_dataB));

            std::cout << "Asynchronous execution with events completed successfully." << std::endl;

            return 0;
        }

    .. tab-item:: hipStreamWaitEvent

      .. code-block:: cpp

        #include <hip/hip_runtime.h>
        #include <vector>
        #include <iostream>

        #define HIP_CHECK(expression)                \
        {                                            \
            const hipError_t status = expression;    \
            if(status != hipSuccess){                \
                    std::cerr << "HIP error "        \
                        << status << ": "            \
                        << hipGetErrorString(status) \
                        << " at " << __FILE__ << ":" \

>                         << __LINE__ << std::endl;    \

Reviewer 2: Same comments as sync variant

Reviewer 3: Made the requested changes.

  :keywords: AMD, ROCm, HIP, asynchronous concurrent execution, asynchronous, async, concurrent, concurrency

.. _asynchronous_how-to:

*******************************************************************************
Asynchronous concurrent execution
*******************************************************************************

Asynchronous concurrent execution is important for efficient parallelism and
resource utilization, with techniques such as overlapping computation and data
transfer, managing concurrent kernel execution with streams on single or
multiple devices, or using HIP graphs.

Streams and concurrent execution
===============================================================================

All asynchronous APIs, such as kernel execution, data movement and potentially
data allocation/freeing all happen in the context of device streams.

Streams are FIFO buffers of commands to execute in order on a given device.
Commands which enqueue tasks on a stream all return promptly and the task is
executed asynchronously. Multiple streams can point to the same device and
those streams might be fed from multiple concurrent host-side threads. Execution

> on multiple streams might be concurrent but isn't required to be.

Reviewer 4: A bit vague for quite an important detail
```suggestion
those streams might be fed from multiple concurrent host-side threads. Multiple streams
tied to the same device are not guaranteed to execute their commands in order.
```

Managing streams
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Streams enable the overlap of computation and data transfer, ensuring

> continuous GPU activity.

Reviewer 4: [NIT] Seems vague and out of place in.

Reviewer 3: Need to explain, why should we use streams added an extra sentence to avoid the "out of place"

Reviewer 4: The whole paragraph seems out of place. You come from section `Streams and concurrent execution` where you explain this idea. Then you restate it at the beginning of `Managing streams`. It is not wrong but it does not read well, and feels unnecessary/redundant. As it is a NIT, feel free to resolve this comment if you don't agree with the suggestion.

  specified priority, enabling prioritization of certain tasks.

The :cpp:func:`hipStreamSynchronize` function is used to block the calling host
thread until all previously submitted tasks in a specified HIP stream have
completed. It ensures that all operations in the given stream, such as kernel
executions or memory transfers, are finished before the host thread proceeds.

.. note::

  If the :cpp:func:`hipStreamSynchronize` function input stream is 0 (or the
  default stream), it waits for all operations in the default stream to
  complete.

Concurrent execution between host and device
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Concurrent execution between the host (CPU) and device (GPU) allows the CPU to
perform other tasks while the GPU is executing kernels. Kernels can be launched
asynchronously using ``hipLaunchKernelGGL`` or triple chevron with a stream,
enabling the CPU to continue executing other code while the GPU processes the
kernel. Similarly, memory operations like :cpp:func:`hipMemcpyAsync` can be
performed asynchronously, allowing data transfers between the host and device

> without blocking the CPU.

Reviewer 4: Can implies, that in some circumstances the command is not executed asynchronously, which is not the case.
```suggestion
perform other tasks while the GPU is executing kernels. Kernels are launched
asynchronously using ``hipLaunchKernelGGL`` or using the triple chevron with a stream,
enabling the CPU to continue executing other code while the GPU processes the
kernel. Similarly, memory operations like :cpp:func:`hipMemcpyAsync` are
performed asynchronously, allowing data transfers between the host and device
without blocking the CPU.
```

Concurrent execution of multiple kernels on the GPU allows different kernels to
run simultaneously to maximize GPU resource usage. Managing dependencies
between kernels is crucial for ensuring correct execution order. This can be
achieved using :cpp:func:`hipStreamWaitEvent`, which allows a kernel to wait
for a specific event before starting execution.

Independent kernels can only run concurrently if there are enough registers
and shared memory for the kernels. To enable concurrent kernel executions, the
developer may have to reduce the block size of the kernels. The kernel runtimes
can be misleading for concurrent kernel runs, that is why during optimization
it is a good practice to check the trace files, to see if one kernel is blocking
another kernel, while they are running in parallel. For more information about
the application tracing, check::doc:`rocprofiler:/how-to/using-rocprof`.

When running kernels in parallel, the execution time can increase due to
contention for shared resources. This is because multiple kernels may attempt
to access the same GPU resources simultaneously, leading to delays.

> Asynchronous kernel execution is beneficial only under specific conditions. It

Reviewer 4: All kernels are asynchronous, so it is best to be clear that it is regarding multiple concurrent kernels.
```suggestion
Multiple kernels executing concurrently is only beneficial under specific conditions. It
```

is most effective when the kernels do not fully utilize the GPU's resources. In
such cases, overlapping kernel execution can improve overall throughput and
efficiency by keeping the GPU busy without exceeding its capacity.

Overlap of data transfer and kernel execution
===============================================================================

One of the primary benefits of asynchronous operations is the ability to
overlap data transfer with kernel execution, leading to better resource

> utilization and improved performance.

Reviewer 4: [NIT] you could clarify that multiple streams are needed to copy while executing a kernel in parallel.

instance, if a kernel is initiated, it can be efficient to prepare the input
data simultaneously, provided that this preparation does not depend on the
kernel's execution. Such iterative data transfer and kernel execution overlap
can be find in the :ref:`async_example`.

Querying device capabilities
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some AMD HIP-enabled devices can perform asynchronous memory copy operations to
or from the GPU concurrently with kernel execution. Applications can query this
capability by checking the ``asyncEngineCount`` device property. Devices with
an ``asyncEngineCount`` greater than zero support concurrent data transfers.
Additionally, if host memory is involved in the copy, it should be page-locked
to ensure optimal performance. Page-locking (or pinning) host memory increases
the bandwidth between the host and the device, reducing the overhead associated
with data transfers. For more details, visit :ref:`host_memory` page.

Asynchronous memory operations
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Asynchronous memory operations allow data to be transferred between the host

> and device while kernels are being executed on the GPU. Using operations like

Reviewer 4: I think this sentence is a bit misleading. A reader could miss the fact that this operation must be on a different streams to get this behavior.

Asynchronous memory operations, do not block the host while copying this data.
Asynchronous memory operations on multiple streams allow for data to be transferred between the host and device while kernels are executed. (and do not block the host while copying this data)

Reviewer 3: Updated sentence.

:cpp:func:`hipMemcpyAsync`, developers can initiate data transfers without
waiting for the previous operation to complete. This overlap of computation and
data transfer ensures that the GPU is not idle while waiting for data. Examples
include launching kernels in one stream while performing data transfers in
another. This technique is especially useful in applications with large data
sets that need to be processed quickly.

> Concurrent data transfers

Reviewer 4: How does this differ to the `Asynchronous memory operations section`?
This feels repetitive, and it is not clear on how you wish to distinguish between concurrent and asynchronous within this context

Reviewer 3: Removed concurrent data transfers section and added ``hipMemcpyPeerAsync`` mention to previous section.
